In a Ethereum, transactions move the state of the account.
Their piece of instruction to submit to
the blockchain generated by an externally owned account.
In this video, we'll go over
different transaction types that exist on the Ethereum network,
then, we'll overview the transaction fields in each of these types.
There are two transaction types;
message calls and contract creation.
Externally owned accounts initiate both message calls and contract creation.
This transaction could be between a person and another person or a person to a contract.
Here's a diagram that shows each of these message types in a little more detail.
On the left is a message call.
This message call results in a change to the world state.
This state change could be as simple as a change in
Ethereum balance or a change in smart contract storage.
To do this, the owner of an EOA signs
the transaction with their private key prior to sending it on the network.
After making this message call,
it can trigger a message between EOAs and other EOAs,
or EOAs and CAs.
Contract creation is a little simpler.
This also results in a change to
the world state and is specifically used to create contracts.
The type of transaction you create is determined
by the values in each of the contract fields.
Here's an example of an Ethereum transaction.
First, notice that there are a few fields like nonce, gasPrice and others.
Let's go over these fields in a little more detail.
First, the nonce is a transaction count from the sender's account.
Every transaction that occurs needs to have a unique incrementing nonce.
The first transaction you send from your account will have a nonce of zero,
the second will have a nonce of one, and so on.
Next, the gas price is the price the sender is willing to pay per unit of gas.
We'll be covering gas in a little more detail in the next section,
but the gas price is a similar concept to [inaudible] and Bitcoin.
Ethereum uses gas to determine the reward miners received for executing contracts,
the price set here is the incentive miners have to mine new transactions.
The gas limit specifies the maximum number of gas that the contract can spend.
This is useful for a few reasons that we'll go over it in a later section.
Next, the To field is where you specify a recipient address.
The amount of Ether you want to send is shown in the value field.
This value is written in way.
Finally, the data in Init fields are optional.
But are what make Ethereum different from other platforms?
Here, you can provide information used to record
the creation and execution of smart contracts.
This field is used when interacting with smart contracts.
It will hold the code that lists conditions and consequences of the contract.
That wraps up this brief introduction to transaction types and their fields.
We'll actually be using these fields soon when we start creating our own transactions.